                                  License for FacePulseRate Toolbox
 
Copyright (c) 2020 Douglas Magill <dpmdpm@vt.edu>. 

For interest in commercial licensing, please contact the author.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the
GNU General Public License, version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without 
even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details. 

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if     
not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses>.

In addition, as a special exception, the copyright holder of FacePulseRate gives you permission 
to combine FacePulseRate with free software programs or libraries that are released under the 
GNU LGPL and with code included in the standard release of MATLAB under the appropriate MATLAB 
license (or modified versions of such code, with unchanged license). You may copy and distribute 
such a system following the terms of the GNU GPL for FacePulseRate and the licenses of the other 
code concerned.

RAIL license:
       
In addition to the aforementioned GNU General Public License, this program is licensed under the
terms of the Responsible AI License (RAIL).      


                                   Third-Party Copyright Notices

FacePulseRate Toolbox uses programs from other authors. These programs are listed here.  
Third-party copyrights are property of their respective owners.


-- Pulse-Rate Algorithms --

The following files, in addition to others, are based on the implementation in iphys toolbox,  
copyright (c) Daniel McDuff, Ethan Blackford, January 2019, licensed under the MIT License and 
the Responsible AI License (RAIL). See discussion in McDuff, D., & Blackford, E. (2019). iphys:  
An open non-contact imaging-based physiological measurement toolbox. In 2019 Annual     
International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC), pp. 
6521-6524. These files, as well as the licenses for iPhys Toolbox, can be found in folder 
'FacePulseRate/Funs/PulseRate/iPhysToolbox_modified'.

    CHROM_DEHAAN_modified.m ("Chrominance" method). See discussion in De Haan, G., & Jeanne, V.    
    (2013). Robust pulse rate from chrominance-based rPPG. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical   
    Engineering, 60(10), 2878-2886. DOI: 10.1109/TBME.2013.2266196

    GREEN_VERKRUYSSE_modified.m ("Green-Channel" method). See discussion in Verkruysse, W.,     
    Svaasand, L. O., & Nelson, J. S. (2008). Remote plethysmographic imaging using ambient    
    light. Optics express, 16(26), 21434-21445. DOI: 10.1364/OE.16.021434

    ICA_POH_modified.m ("Independent Component Analysis [ICA]" method). See discussion in Poh,  
    M. Z., McDuff, D. J., & Picard, R. W. (2010). Non-contact, automated cardiac pulse   
    measurements using video imaging and blind source separation. Optics express, 18(10),  
    10762-10774. DOI: 10.1364/OE.18.010762   

    POS_WANG_modified.m ("Plane Orthogonal to Skin-Tone [POS]" method). See discussion in Wang,  
    W., den Brinker, A. C., Stuijk, S., & de Haan, G. (2017). Algorithmic principles of remote   
    PPG. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 64(7), 1479-1491. DOI: 
    10.1109/TBME.2016.2609282    

    ICA.m. Daniel McDuff, Ethan Blackford, & Justin Estepp, December, 2018. Based on an 
    implementation by: G. D. Clifford (2004) <gari@mit.edu>. Licensed under the MIT License and  
    the Responsible AI License (RAIL).

    jade.m. J. F. Cardoso, Version 1.5. See discussion in Cardoso, J. C. C. O., & Souloumiac, A. 
    Blind beamforming for non-Gaussian signals. 1993. IET. p, 362-370.

    spdetrend.m. Implementation based on M. P. Tarvainen, TBME, 2002.  

    bvpsnr.m. Adapted from the method by G. de Haan, TBME, 2013. 

PulseRate_ControlForLuminance.m. The use of luminance values to control RGB values for
luminance variation across frames was based upon Madan, C. R., Harrison, T., & Mathewson, K. E. 
(2018). Noncontact measurement of emotional and physiological changes in heart rate from a 
webcam. Psychophysiology, 55(4), e13005.


-- Viola-Jones Face Detection --

The following Viola-Jones face-detection files were accessed from OpenCV (Open Source  
Computer Vision Library) copyright (c) 2020, OpenCV team. See files, which also contain the
respective licences, in
.../FacePulseRate/Funs/ROI_Means/Detect_Algs/Face/Open_CV_Viola-Jones.
          
    lbpcascade_frontalface_improved.xml. Copyright (c) 2017, Puttemans Steven, Can Ergun    
    and Toon Goedeme, all rights reserved. See discussion in Puttemans, S., Can, E., &  
    Goedeme, T. (2017). Improving open source face detection by combining an adapted  
    cascade classification pipeline and active learning. Proceedings of VISAPP 2017, 5, 
    396-404.
 
    haarcascade_profileface.xml. Copyright (c) 2000, Intel Corporation, all rights    
    reserved. Contributed by David Bradley from Princeton University. 
       
    cuda_haarcascade_frontalface_alt_tree.xml. Copyright (c) 2000, Intel Corporation, all   
    rights reserved. Contributed by Rainer Lienhart. 

    haarcascade_mcs_eyepair_big.xml. Copyright (c) 2006-2020, Modesto Castrillon-Santana   
    (SIANI), Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain. See discussion in 
    Castrillón, M., Déniz, O., Hernández, D., & Lorenzo, J. (2011). A comparison of face 
    and facial feature detectors based on the Viola–Jones general object detection 
    framework. Machine Vision and Applications, 22(3), 481-494.


-- Skin Classification --

SkinDetect_RGBProbSkinTrain.m and SkinDetect_RGBProbSkin.m are files modified for use in 
FacePulseRate toolbox from the Skin Segmentation toolbox by Madhav Rajan, 2014. Accessed from 
the Matlab Central File Exchange. See discussion on Github 
(https://github.com/madhrajan91/Skin-Segmentation).     

data.txt is from the Skin Segmentation Dataset, UCI Machine Learning Repository, copyright (c)  
Rajen Bhatt & Abhinav Dhall, 2009. Accessed June, 2020, from 
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Skin+Segmentation. See discussion in Bhatt, Sharma,  
Dhall, Chaudhury (2009). Efficient skin region segmentation using low complexity fuzzy decision        
tree model. IEEE-INDICON, Dec 16-18, Ahmedabad, India, pp. 1-4. See also Dhall, Sharma, Bhatt,   
and Khan (2009). Adaptive  Digital Makeup, Proc. of International Symposium on Visual Computing  
(ISVC), Nov. 30 -Dec. 02, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 5876, 
pp. 728-736.

RGB_External.txt and RGB_External_Rand.txt contain data from data.txt, listed above, with  
additional data copyright (c) Douglas Magill, June, 2020.


-- Skin Segmentation --

SkinSegmentMask_Threshold.m. The use of fixed minimum and maximum YCbCr values is adapted from 
iphys toolbox. The other features were developed solely by toolbox FacePulseRate. iphys toolbox 
copyright (c) Daniel McDuff, Ethan Blackford, January 2019, licensed under the MIT License and  
the Responsible AI License (RAIL). See discussion in McDuff, D., & Blackford, E. (2019). iphys: 
An open non-contact imaging-based physiological measurement toolbox. In 2019 Annual      
International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC), pp.
6521-6524.  


-- Video Reading and Writing --

ffmpeg.exe and ffprobe.exe are used by FacePulseRate as unmodified binary files. These files 
are from the FFmpeg project, which licenses these files under LGPLv2.1. These binary files can
be found in FacePulseRate\Funs\General\ffmpeg. In accordance with the license, the source code 
for the files is included with the distribution of FacePulseRate. The source code can be found
in .../FacePulseRate/Funs/General/ffmpeg.

getFrameTimestamps.m was adapted from file videoframets.m (v0.1) copyright (c) David Bulkin, 
January, 2017. Accessed from the Matlab Central File Exchange.






